Skip to main content
Ontario Shores Centre for Mental Health SciencesToggle Navigation
 
 
 
 
(TEMPORARY FULL TIME) BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE DEVELOPER (CO-OP STUDENT)
Job Category: Students
Requisition Number: TEMPO003464
 

Posting Details
Posted: March 9, 2026
Full-Time
LocationsShowing 1 location
Whitby, ON L1N5S9, CAN
Job Details
Description
POSITION SUMMARY:

As part of the Data & Analytics team, the Business Intelligence (BI) Developer will report directly to the Director, Data & Analytics, with day-to-day support and coaching from the Senior BI Developer & Technical Lead.  The BI Developer will support, in collaboration with other team members, designing, modeling, development, maintenance and enhancement of the Ontario Shores’ data environments and tools/solutions.  The role will also support reporting, analytics as well as business intelligence/decision support solutions to meet the information needs and the strategic goals of the organization.  The BI Developer will apply best practices in data analytics, requirements gathering, data modelling and report building.  There will also be work involving APIs, Blazor Web App Development (C# and HTML), and Azure Cloud tools.

KEY DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

Database/Data Model Design & Development:

Documents business requirements in the form of specifications (functional and technical specifications), validates accuracy and obtains necessary input and approval.
Supports development and maintenance of data models and data dictionaries, data maps and other artifacts across the organization, including the conceptual and physical models, as well as metadata repository.
Contributes to evaluation of current state and future state requirements and supports development of proposals to address identified gaps.
Supports activities to ensure the integrity and performance of the Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence environment at Ontario Shores, including investigation and issue resolution as required.
 

Report Design & Development:

Contributes to the development of reporting solutions and helps to ensures that report implementation produces the required output as defined by the requirements.
Generates reports using reporting tools such as Report Builder, Power BI and Excel spreadsheets; schedules and deploys reports on Report Server.
Ensures reports are optimized for efficiency and performance in production environment.
Assists with documentation of report library and builds ETL packages.
 

Other Duties

Conducts research into data trends, issues, standards, and products as required.
Maintains strict confidentiality in handling of any sensitive data.
Performs other related duties as assigned or requested.
 

 

Work Conditions:

Hybrid Work Environment: The Data & Analytics team works in a hybrid model, with a mix of on-site and remote based work.  The expectation is that the candidate will be available to work on-site at Ontario Shores some days during the week.  The expectation is that the candidate will have access to a good internet connection to support any remote-based work days.  A hospital laptop will be provided.
 

 

Skills / Qualifications

The ideal candidate will have a background in computer science, with a strong programming background.  Experience with relational databases, data model development, data warehousing, data visualization as well as knowledge and experience of cloud-based BI, data virtualization including Azure platform and Power BI Service are assets and should be highlighted in the cover letter and CV.  

Minimum 2nd year undergraduate level students in computer science, software engineering, mathematics or similar program.

Additional requirements include: 

Core competency with SQL is mandatory
Ability to take initiative and able to work both independently and as a team member
Excellent collaboration and communication skills
Strong problem-solving skills to investigate and resolve any technical/performance issues that occur
Hands on experience with Object-Oriented Programming language, including but not limited to, C#/VB/Java.
Good understanding of, and experience with, code repositories such as GitHub and DevOps for managing code. (will be considered an asset)
Knowledge of the basics of Machine Learning and ability to write/read Python/R code. (will be considered an asset)
1 Vacancy Available

Hiring Rate: $20 per hour

Job Posting Closing: March 23, 2026 at midnight. Please note any job applications after the closing date will not be considered. 


Ontario Shores Centre for Mental Health Sciences